in respect of the assessment of the appellant to  income-tax
the  income-tax officer excluded the amount of  interest  onmaharaj kumar kamal singh vs the commissioner of income-tax, ... on 1 october, 1958
indian kanoon - http://indiankanoon.org/doc/1886356/ 1arrears of rent received by him, in view of the decision  of
the   patna  high  court  in  kamakshya  narain   singh   v.
commissioner  of  income-tax, [1946] 14 1. t. r.  673,  that
this  amount  was not liable to be taxed, though  an  appeal
against  the  said  decision to the  privy  council  at  the
instance  of  the income-tax department  was  then  pending.
subsequently on july 6, 1948, the privy council allowed  the
appeal and held that interest on arrears of rent payable  in
respect of agricultural land was not agricultural income  as
it  was  neither rent nor revenue derived from land.   as  a
result   of  this  decision  the  income-tax  officer   took
proceedings under s. 34 of the indian income-tax act,  1922,
as  amended, and revised the assessment order by adding  the
aforesaid  amount,  on  the  footing  that  the   subsequent
decision  of  the privy council was information  within  the
meaning  of s. 34(1)(b) of the act and that  the  income-tax
officer had reason to believe that a part of the  assessee's
income,  had escaped assessment.  it was contended  for  the
appellant  that s. 34(1)(b) was not applicable to  the  case
because (1) the information referred to in the section means
information  as to facts and cannot include the decision  of
the privy council on a point of law,
11
and  (2) where income has been duly returned for  assessment
and  an assessment order has been passed by  the  income-tax
officer,  it  cannot  be said that any  income  has  escaped
assessment within s. 34(1)(b).
held,  (1) that the word " information " in s.  34(1)(b)   of
the  act  includes information as to the  true  and  correct
state  of  the  law and so would  cover  information  as  to
relevant judicial decisions; and,
(2)  that  the  expression "has escaped  assessment"  in  to
cases  where no return has been submitted by  the  assessee.
the section is applicable not only where income has not been
assessed owing to inadvertence or oversight or owing to  the
fact  that no return has been submitted, but also where  are
turn   has  been  submitted,  but  the  income-tax   officer
erroneously fails to tax a part of assessable income.
rajendra  nath mukherjee v. income-tax commissioner,  (1933)
l.r.  61  i. a. 10 and messrs.  chatturam horliram  ltd.  v.
commissioner of income-tax, bihar and orissa, [1955] 2s.c.r.
290, distinguished.
raja  benoy kumar sahas roy v. commissioner  of  income-tax,
west bengal, [1953] 24 i.t.r. 70, madan lal v.  commissioner
of   income-tax,  punjab,  [1944]  12  i.t.r.  8   and   the
commissioner  of income-tax v. raja of  parlakimedi,  (1926)
i.l.r. 49 mad. 22, approved. ,
maharaja  bikram  kishore of tripura v. province  of  assam,
[1949] 17 i.t.r. 22o, disapproved.